a ceasefire between israel and the
militant group hamas has brought
an end to 11 days of fighting
the violence has claimed the lives of
more than 230 palestinians
and 12 israelis the deal announced late
on thursday was brokered by egypt
and agreed to by the israeli security
cabinet and the palestinian militant
groups
it has been described as mutual and
unconditional
so far it seems to be holding on both
sides
cairo will send security delegations to
israel and the palestinian territories
to
help uphold this ceasefire
president biden has welcomed the
cessation of hostilities which he said
presented an opportunity now for
progress in the middle east courtney
bembridge has this report
there were celebrations on the streets
of gaza city after the ceasefire came
into effect in the early hours of the
morning
it brings to an end 11 days of
bombardment
in which more than 240 people have died
mostly in gaza
hamas is the militant group that rules
there and this was its reaction to the
truce
i say that today this battle stops but
netanyahu
and the whole world should know that our
hands are on the trigger
and we will continue to ramp up the
capabilities of this resistance
and we will tell netanyahu and his army
if you come back we will come back
the office of the israeli prime minister
benjamin netanyahu said the ceasefire
was
mutual and unconditional but some
israelis in tel aviv were doubtful
about how long it will last the
ceasefire is good for
humanitarian reasons to let civilians
relax a little bit on both sides i'm
skeptical though that it will really be
kept for a while
i don't think israel has achieved much i
mean there are no
any no agreements about the future
nothing this ceasefire
won't last um
eight hours they will start
shooting gas rackets again the us
president joe biden welcomed the
ceasefire which was brokered by egypt
we've held intensive high-level
discussions hour
by hour literally egypt the palestinian
authority and other middle eastern
countries
with the name of avoiding the sort of
prolonged conflict we've seen in
previous years
when the hostilities have broken out
cairo is sending two delegations to
monitor the situation
as the world's attention now turns to
maintaining peace
this was the message from the united
nations i stress that
israeli and palestinian leaders have a
responsibility beyond the restoration of
calm
to start a serious dialogue to address
the root causes of the conflict
the latest conflict is the fourth big
war between
israel and hamas since 2008
and many fear it won't be the last the
reality at this point is the gaps
between the
israelis and the palestinians on this
conflict and how to resolve
it are extremely wide both substantively
psychologically
and i would say politically for now
though
both sides are claiming a victory
courtney bembridge
bbc news